---
layout: post
title:  "Code2Inv - Si et al Notes"
date:   2019-01-29 3:11:06 -0700
categories: notes
mathjax: true
---

[Paper](https://www.seas.upenn.edu/~xsi/data/nips18.pdf)

Why Machine learning ? We want to avoid hand crafted invariants of a particular form . Also, obtaining labels (invariants here) is expensive as the problem is undecidable so we use RL.

For a program with a single loop and pre and post conditions, we only need the invariant for a solver to be able to prove it.
Strategy -> Organize the program in a hierarchical way, compose the invariant step by step, focus on a different part of the program step by step

### Structured external memory
Encode the program as a graph (Allamanis et al). First convert the program to SSA form and then construct a CFG. Then for each node in the graph, build an AST. 3 edge types used (6 including reverse edges) i.e. CFG edge, AST edge or variable linking edge (this edge connects each occurrence of a variable to a canonical node for that variable)

Using GNN, we get an embedding for each node after a fixed number of iterations. This is the memory module. 

### Step by Step invariant generation
Invariant is assumed to be in CNF form (tree). Model the process as a MDP with a T step time horizon. (S, a, r) -> state, action, reward
Action: (op, T) -> at each step the action can add to an existing clause or add a new clause

The policy is :
 $$π(T |G)= \prod_{t = 1\ to\ T} π(a|T (<t),G) = \prod_{t = 1\ to\ T} π(opt,T_t|T _{(<t)},G)$$ where T_{(<t)} is the tree constructed till time t.

Trees are generated using a pre defined language and using a syntax directed decoder (a la Rishabh Singh's neuro symbolic PS)
State: Partial tree and graph

### Attention
Encode the partial tree into embedding using TreeLSTM and then use it to read into the external memory

### RL setup
Why RL? Because we have no supervision
Problems for the RL setup : 
1. Reward is sparse (we only know correctness at the end) 
2. Non smooth objective (either correct or not)
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbNDQ5MzI3NzE3XX0=
-->